In this lesson, we'll look at enum. Let's make our enum class available in the editor.
And let's also talk about structures. Let's start with enum. We create an enum class. Let's call our type MovementType.
This enum will be responsible for the type of movement of our actor.
The first element will be moving along a sine wave, as we have now, and the second static.
With this value, the actor will be at rest.
Create a variable of type MovementType. Let's call it MoveType
and set the default to MovementType :: Static.
Go to the .cpp file. In the Tick function, let's make a switch according to our enum MovementType.
Add the code that we wrote in the last lesson to the sine block.
We remove it from the bottom of the Tick and insert it into the case block.
We leave the block with MovementType :: Static empty, because we don't want our actor to move and we
also leave default empty. So, we have already created a working example. If we compile now,
then everything will work for us. We can change the default value to sine and then our actor
will move along a sinusoid, or leave the default as it is static and then the actor
will not change its position. We return to the .h file. Now we will make sure that this type of
enum is displayed correctly in the editor. To do this, we need to take a few steps.
The first one is adding a body kit from the UENUM macro on top of our enum class.
This macro will generate additional meta-code that extends the functionality of the
classic enum classes. We specify the UENUM BlueprintType argument. This parameter means
that our class will become available in the editor, in blueprints, and we can directly
change the values ​​of our MoveType variable in the editor. The next moment. All enum types in Unreal Engine
must start with a capital E and all enum types are strongly typed. They are of type uint8
uint8 is an alias, typedef unsigned char. Essentially, this means that the maximum number of
elements for an enum can be 255. Let's change the MovementType everywhere to EMovementType.
In the .h file and also in the .cpp file.
We make our MoveType variable available in the
editor. To do this, copy the property and paste it above the MoveType variable.
We launch the editor.
Click play.
Our actors don't move - that's okay, because we have MoveType = static by default.
Click on actor, go to the details panel, find our MoveType
and we see that the enum is displayed as a combobox. We can change static to sin.
We launch. One actor is moving. The other is at rest.
Let's move on to creating structures in the unreal engine. Structures in classic C ++ are
virtually indistinguishable from classes. The only difference is the
default access modifier . For members and functions, it is public for structures and private for classes.
In unreal, structures are mainly used to organize data, that is, to combine
variables into some kind of related objects. We will now create with you a structure that
combines the variables from the Movement category of our actor, that is, the amplitude, frequency and type of movement.
We type a struct, call our structure GeometryData
By analogy with enum, we need to add a special macro at the top called USTRUCT.
We also declare that our structure will be available in blueprints. We specify a parameter to the
BlueprintType macro. All struct types in unreal start with a capital F.
And the last macro we need to add is called GENERATED_USTRUCT_BODY.
This macro is very similar to GENERATED_BODY - an actor macro.
We will talk about these macros at the end of this section of the lectures.
We remove our variable from the BaseGeometryActor body and insert them into the body of our GeometryData structure.
In the actor, create a variable of type FGeometryData.
Let's call it GeometryData.
We make the variable available in the editor, for this we add our macro with uproperty on top.
Let's change the category from Movement to GeometryData.
We have created with you an object of type FGeometryData.
We move to the .cpp file and in the main code we need to change all our variables
that we moved to our object to the variables of this object.
So, everything is ready for us. Launch editor.
Select any of our actors, find the GeometryData category in the details panel and see
how the data structure is displayed in the editor. From the point of view of logic, nothing has changed in our code
, and from the point of view of data organization, now all our variables are combined into a structure.
Now, for example, we can pass all our variables not individually,
but as a whole GeometryData object.
And the last moment in this lecture. I refactored our code a little,
created the HandleMovement function, removed all the logic of the movement of our actor,
renamed the Time variable. It now starts with a capital letter.
Also, all our Print functions now start with a capital letter. This is related to coding standards.
We will use the Unreal standard. All variables, all functions will start with a capital letter.
We will talk about this in more detail in the following sections, but from now on, let's try to comply with it.